# Example Data

In this folder, we provide some example data to follow our tutorials. 
1. In the `Schraivogel` directory, gene expression and gRNA count matrices from a TAPseq screen from [Schraivogel et al.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-020-0837-5) are provided. The data set consists of around 22,000 cells and 86 gRNAs (30 non-targeting control + 56 targeting gRNAs).
2. In the `guide_assignment` directory, the output of the 11 different guide assignment functioons of this package on the Schraivogel data set can be found. Each assignment method produces a `perturbations.csv` file, in which all cell-gRNA assignments are stored. Some methods output additional files such as the inferred thresholds per gRNA or plots of the loss and the fitted distributions.
3. In the `sceptre_output` directory, we saved the output files from running the pipeline of the R package SCEPTRE for differential expression testing between perturbed and control cells on each assignment of the TAPseq screen by Schraivogel et al. (the code how to obtain these output from the `perturbations.csv` files can be found under `tutorials/downstream_analyses/SCEPTRE_discovery.R`). Each subfolder (one per assignment) consists of the standard plots created by SCEPTRE as well as three `.rds` files. In the calibration step (`results_run_calibration_check.rds`), the amount of false discoveries is calculated by testing for differential expression between the cells assigned to a set of non-targeting control gRNAs vs. all other non-targeting assigned cells. Next, the `results_run_power_check.rds` file contains log2 fold changes and p-values for testing for differential expression of the target gene (positive control). Lastly, the `results_run_discovery_analysis.rds` file contains the results of the differential expression tests for all genes in all perturbations. More information about SCEPTRE and its usage and output files can be found [here](https://timothy-barry.github.io/sceptre-book/sceptre.html). 
